---
title: Writing a New Post
author: cotes
date: 2019-08-08 14:10:00 +0800
categories: [Blogging, Tutorial]
tags: [writing]
render_with_liquid: false
---

```python
# line comment
v = 1
s = "string"

for i in range(-10, 10):
    print(i + 1)

class LinkedList(object):
    def __init__(self, x):
        self.val = x
        self.next = None
```

This tutorial will guide you how to write a post in the _Chirpy_ template, and it's worth reading even if you've used Jekyll before, as many features require specific variables to be set.

## Naming and Path

Create a new file named `YYYY-MM-DD-TITLE.EXTENSION`{: .filepath} and put it in the `_posts`{: .filepath} of the root directory. Please note that the `EXTENSION`{: .filepath} must be one of `md`{: .filepath} and `markdown`{: .filepath}. If you want to save time of creating files, please consider using the plugin [`Jekyll-Compose`](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll-compose) to accomplish this.

## Front Matter

Basically, you need to fill the [Front Matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/) as below at the top of the post:

```yaml
---
title: TITLE
date: YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS +/-TTTT
categories: [TOP_CATEGORIE, SUB_CATEGORIE]
tags: [TAG]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---
```

> The posts' _layout_ has been set to `post` by default, so there is no need to add the variable _layout_ in the Front Matter block.
{: .prompt-tip }

### Timezone of Date

In order to accurately record the release date of a post, you should not only set up the `timezone` of `_config.yml`{: .filepath} but also provide the post's timezone in variable `date` of its Front Matter block. Format: `+/-TTTT`, e.g. `+0800`.

### Categories and Tags

The `categories` of each post are designed to contain up to two elements, and the number of elements in `tags` can be zero to infinity. For instance:

```yaml
---
categories: [Animal, Insect]
tags: [bee]
---
```

### Author Information

The author information of the post usually does not need to be filled in the _Front Matter_ , they will be obtained from variables `social.name` and the first entry of `social.links` of the configuration file by default. But you can also override it as follows:

Adding author information in `_data/authors.yml` (If your website doesn't have this file, don't hesitate to create one).

```yaml
<author_id>:
  name: <full name>
  twitter: <twitter_of_author>
  url: <homepage_of_author>
```
{: file="_data/authors.yml" }

And then use `author` to specify a single entry or `authors` to specify multiple entries:

```yaml
---
author: <author_id>                     # for single entry
# or
authors: [<author1_id>, <author2_id>]   # for multiple entries
---
```

Having said that, the key `author` can also identify multiple entries.

> The benefit of reading the author information from the file `_data/authors.yml`{: .filepath } is that the page will have the meta tag `twitter:creator`, which enriches the [Twitter Cards](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/twitter-for-websites/cards/guides/getting-started#card-and-content-attribution) and is good for SEO.
{: .prompt-info }

### Post Description

By default, the first words of the post are used to display on the home page for a list of posts, in the _Further Reading_ section, and in the XML of the RSS feed. If you don't want to display the auto-generated description for the post, you can customize it using the `description` field in the _Front Matter_ as follows:

```yaml
---
description: Short summary of the post.
---
```

Additionally, the `description` text will also be displayed under the post title on the post's page.

## Table of Contents

By default, the **T**able **o**f **C**ontents (TOC) is displayed on the right panel of the post. If you want to turn it off globally, go to `_config.yml`{: .filepath} and set the value of variable `toc` to `false`. If you want to turn off TOC for a specific post, add the following to the post's [Front Matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/):

```yaml
---
toc: false
---
```

## Comments

The global switch of comments is defined by variable `comments.active` in the file `_config.yml`{: .filepath}. After selecting a comment system for this variable, comments will be turned on for all posts.

If you want to close the comment for a specific post, add the following to the **Front Matter** of the post:

```yaml
---
comments: false
---
```

## Media

We refer to images, audio and video as media resources in _Chirpy_.

### URL Prefix

From time to time we have to define duplicate URL prefixes for multiple resources in a post, which is a boring task that you can avoid by setting two parameters.

- If you are using a CDN to host media files, you can specify the `cdn` in `_config.yml`{: .filepath }. The URLs of media resources for site avatar and posts are then prefixed with the CDN domain name.

  ```yaml
  cdn: https://cdn.com
  ```
  {: file='_config.yml' .nolineno }

- To specify the resource path prefix for the current post/page range, set `media_subpath` in the _front matter_ of the post:

  ```yaml
  ---
  media_subpath: /path/to/media/
  ---
  ```
  {: .nolineno }

The option `site.cdn` and `page.media_subpath` can be used individually or in combination to flexibly compose the final resource URL: `[site.cdn/][page.media_subpath/]file.ext`

## Pinned Posts

You can pin one or more posts to the top of the home page, and the fixed posts are sorted in reverse order according to their release date. Enable by:

```yaml
---
pin: true
---
```

## Prompts

There are several types of prompts: `tip`, `info`, `warning`, and `danger`. They can be generated by adding the class `prompt-{type}` to the blockquote. For example, define a prompt of type `info` as follows:

```md
> Example line for prompt.
{: .prompt-info }
```
{: .nolineno }

## Syntax

### Inline Code

```md
`inline code part`
```
{: .nolineno }

### Filepath Hightlight

```md
`/path/to/a/file.extend`{: .filepath}
```
{: .nolineno }

### Code Block

Markdown symbols ```` ``` ```` can easily create a code block as follows:

````md
```
This is a plaintext code snippet.
```
````

#### Specifying Language

Using ```` ```{language} ```` you will get a code block with syntax highlight:

````markdown
```yaml
key: value
```
````

> The Jekyll tag `{% highlight %}` is not compatible with this theme.
{: .prompt-danger }

#### Line Number

By default, all languages except `plaintext`, `console`, and `terminal` will display line numbers. When you want to hide the line number of a code block, add the class `nolineno` to it:

````markdown
```shell
echo 'No more line numbers!'
```
{: .nolineno }
````

#### Specifying the Filename

You may have noticed that the code language will be displayed at the top of the code block. If you want to replace it with the file name, you can add the attribute `file` to achieve this:

````markdown
```shell
# content
```
{: file="path/to/file" }
````

#### Liquid Codes

If you want to display the **Liquid** snippet, surround the liquid code with `{% raw %}` and `{% endraw %}`:

````markdown
{% raw %}
```liquid
{% if product.title contains 'Pack' %}
  This product's title contains the word Pack.
{% endif %}
```
{% endraw %}
````

Or adding `render_with_liquid: false` (Requires Jekyll 4.0 or higher) to the post's YAML block.

## Mathematics

We use [**MathJax**][mathjax] to generate mathematics. For website performance reasons, the mathematical feature won't be loaded by default. But it can be enabled by:

[mathjax]: https://www.mathjax.org/

```yaml
---
math: true
---
```

After enabling the mathematical feature, you can add math equations with the following syntax:

- **Block math** should be added with `$$ math $$` with **mandatory** blank lines before and after `$$`
  - **Inserting equation numbering** should be added with `$$\begin{equation} math \end{equation}$$`
  - **Referencing equation numbering** should be done with `\label{eq:label_name}` in the equation block and `\eqref{eq:label_name}` inline with text (see example below)
- **Inline math** (in lines) should be added with `$$ math $$` without any blank line before or after `$$`
- **Inline math** (in lists) should be added with `\$$ math $$`

```markdown
<!-- Block math, keep all blank lines -->

$$
LaTeX_math_expression
$$

<!-- Equation numbering, keep all blank lines  -->

$$
\begin{equation}
  LaTeX_math_expression
  \label{eq:label_name}
\end{equation}
$$

Can be referenced as \eqref{eq:label_name}.

<!-- Inline math in lines, NO blank lines -->

"Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, $$ LaTeX_math_expression $$ consectetur adipiscing elit."

<!-- Inline math in lists, escape the first `$` -->

1. \$$ LaTeX_math_expression $$
2. \$$ LaTeX_math_expression $$
3. \$$ LaTeX_math_expression $$
```

> Starting with `v7.0.0`, configuration options for **MathJax** have been moved to file `assets/js/data/mathjax.js`{: .filepath }, and you can change the options as needed, such as adding [extensions][mathjax-exts].  
> If you are building the site via `chirpy-starter`, copy that file from the gem installation directory (check with command `bundle info --path jekyll-theme-chirpy`) to the same directory in your repository.
{: .prompt-tip }

[mathjax-exts]: https://docs.mathjax.org/en/latest/input/tex/extensions/index.html

## Mermaid

[**Mermaid**](https://github.com/mermaid-js/mermaid) is a great diagram generation tool. To enable it on your post, add the following to the YAML block:

```yaml
---
mermaid: true
---
```

Then you can use it like other markdown languages: surround the graph code with ```` ```mermaid ```` and ```` ``` ````.

## Learn More

For more knowledge about Jekyll posts, visit the [Jekyll Docs: Posts](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/posts/).